docs/intro.md, before:

---
sidebar_position: 1
id: intro
title: Introduction
---

React UI Animate is a react library that allows for creating smooth animations and gesture interactions.

## Motivation and Library overview

In todays world, interactive and smooth web applications are preferred by everyone. Animations on web without any performance drops is very important and also we want controlled animations.

This library represents a modern approach to animation. It is very much inspired by **`framer-motion`** & **`react-native-reanimated`**. It provides very ease of use APIs to implement physics based spring and duration based timing animations with performance. It also provides different hooks to implement gestures on web.

**`react-ui-animate`** is a great tool for creating smooth animations as well as gesture interaction on web. It provides very simple and easy APIs to create very powerful and smooth animation without any performance issues. And it also provides different easy to use hooks for gesture interactions. This library represents a modern way of animating and creating gesture based interaction on web. The UI can be animated without any perfomance issues and it also supports powerful interpolation. It does not cast any re-renders and affects any of your views. It simply animates the way you want your view to animate.

Commit message:

info notice message for main pages

docs/intro.md, after:

---
sidebar_position: 1
id: intro
title: Introduction
---

:::info

Due to time constraint, we couldn't complete this page. We will complete as soon as possible.

:::

React UI Animate is a react library that allows for creating smooth animations and gesture interactions.

## Motivation and Library overview

In todays world, interactive and smooth web applications are preferred by everyone. Animations on web without any performance drops is very important and also we want controlled animations.

This library represents a modern approach to animation. It is very much inspired by **`framer-motion`** & **`react-native-reanimated`**. It provides very ease of use APIs to implement physics based spring and duration based timing animations with performance. It also provides different hooks to implement gestures on web.

**`react-ui-animate`** is a great tool for creating smooth animations as well as gesture interaction on web. It provides very simple and easy APIs to create very powerful and smooth animation without any performance issues. And it also provides different easy to use hooks for gesture interactions. This library represents a modern way of animating and creating gesture based interaction on web. The UI can be animated without any perfomance issues and it also supports powerful interpolation. It does not cast any re-renders and affects any of your views. It simply animates the way you want your view to animate.
